---
layout: post
title:  "mysql"
date:   2016-05-20 09:30:15 +0800
categories: jekyll update
---

### uninstall mysql on ubuntu

    Same root password setting problem here, mine possibly caused by an unsuccessful manual installation of mysql server 5.6 previously. A thorough mysql uninstallation is no easy task. I purged/reinstalled for hours then finally solved it with

    sudo dpkg --purge mysql-client-core-5.5 # or alternative version
    sudo dpkg --purge mysql-client
    sudo dpkg --purge mysql-server-core-5.5 # or alternative version
    sudo dpkg --purge mysql-common
    Basically I just type

    sudo dpkg --purge mysql # followed by two tabs
    Then --purge any packages the terminal auto-completes. Purge mysql-common at last because of some dependency problems.

    Use above dpkg commands in addition to

    sudo apt-get --purge remove mysql-server
    sudo apt-get --purge remove mysql-client
    sudo apt-get --purge remove mysql-common
    sudo apt-get autoremove
    sudo apt-get autoclean
    Also I tried Greqs method

    sudo rm -rf /etc/mysql
    Remove the mysql folder from /var/lib

    sudo rm -rf /var/lib/mysql/
    At this point, to make sure mysql is fully removed, check with

    which mysql
    mysql --version
    The first one should return no output instead of a folder. The second should return mysql is not installed instead of a version number. Otherwise the removal is still incomplete.

    The significance of dpkg --purge is, when using apt-get alone, which mysql and mysql --version behave like mysql is still there.

    Before reinstallation, reconfigure dpkg and update

    sudo dpkg --configure -a
    sudo apt-get update

    !!! need reboot!


### mysql create database utf8

     CREATE DATABASE `test` DEFAULT CHARACTER SET utf8 COLLATE utf8_general_ci;


### mysqldump

    mysqldump -u user -p passwd database > db.sql

    mysqldump -u user -p passwd database table> table.sql

    mysqldump -u user -p -d --add-drop-table db> db.sqlalchemy # -d with no data

    mysqldump -uuser -ppassword --database db db1 db2

    mysqldump -uroot -p --all-databases

    dump mysql with databases:
    mysqldump -uroot -ppassword --add-drop-database --add-drop-table --databases db db1 >dbs.sql

    import db:

    mysql -uuser -ppassword db<db.sql

    mysql -uuser -ppassword -h host db < db.sql


### mysql change database directory

    1.Stop MySQL using the following command:
        sudo /etc/init.d/mysql stop
    2.Copy the existing data directory (default located in /var/lib/mysql) using the following command:
        sudo cp -R -p /var/lib/mysql /newpath
        sudo chown -R mysql:mysql /newpath
    3.edit the MySQL configuration file with the following command:
        sudo gedit /etc/mysql/my.cnf
    4.Look for the entry for datadir, and change the path (which should be /var/lib/mysql) to the new data directory.
    In the terminal, enter the command:
        sudo gedit /etc/apparmor.d/usr.sbin.mysqld
    5.Look for lines beginning with /var/lib/mysql. Change /var/lib/mysql in the lines with the new path.
    Save and close the file.
    6.Restart the AppArmor profiles with the command:
        sudo /etc/init.d/apparmor reload
    7.Restart MySQL with the command:
        sudo /etc/init.d/mysql restart

    maybe get error in step 7
    errer: MySQL: “Access denied for user ‘debian-sys-maint’@’localhost'”
    solution:

        So, what is this “debian-sys-maint” user?  Well, this MySQL user is created for the Ubuntu to be able to start/stop the database and to carry out other maintenance operations.

        Sounds well enough, but then why do I keep running into the “access denied” problem for this user?  Well, the issue is that with each update to MySQL, the user’s password in the database is overwritten.  Ubuntu seems to go to the file /etc/mysql/debian.cnf in order to find this user’s password, but obviously the password is out of sync after the update has been applied.

        As a result of this behaviour, I’ll run into the “access denied” problem every so often.  Thankfully, the solution to this issue is fairly simple.

        First, list the contents of the /etc/mysql/debian.cnf file:

        sudo cat /etc/mysql/debian.cnf

        output:

        # Automatically generated for Debian scripts. DO NOT TOUCH!
    [client]
    host     = localhost
    user     = debian-sys-maint
    password = n4aSHUP04s1J32X5
    socket   = /var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock
    [mysql_upgrade]
    user     = debian-sys-maint
    password = n4aSHUP04s1J32X5
    socket   = /var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock
    basedir  = /usr


    use mysql root reset debian-sys-maint user password

    1.mysql -u root -p <password>  root password maybe reset to null

    2.GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'debian-sys-maint'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'n4aSHUP04s1J32X5';

    fixed access denied error.

    now sudo /etc/init.d/mysql restart


### change root password

    1.mysqladmin -u root password NEWPASSWORD

    2.mysqladmin -u root -p'oldpassword' password newpass

    3.use mysql;
    update user set password=PASSWORD("NEWPASSWORD") where User='nixcraft';


### mysql remote access denied error

    1.SQLException: access denied for  @'localhost' (using password: no)

    solution:
    grant all privileges on *.* to joe@localhost identified by '1';
    flush privileges;

    2.grant 权限1,权限2,…权限n on 数据库名称.表名称 to 用户名@用户地址 identified by ‘连接口令’;

    select,insert,update,delete,create,drop,index,alter,grant,references,reload,shutdown,process,file


### mysql check db tables size

    SELECT
    table_name AS `Table`,
    round(((data_length + index_length) / 1024 / 1024), 2) `Size in MB`
    FROM information_schema.TABLES
    WHERE table_schema = "server";


### mysqldump tables except some tables

    #!/bin/bash
    PASSWORD=XXXXXX
    HOST=XXXXXX
    USER=XXXXXX
    DATABASE=databasename
    DB_FILE=dump.sql
    EXCLUDED_TABLES=(
    table1
    table2
    table3
    table4
    tableN
    )

    IGNORED_TABLES_STRING=''
    for TABLE in "${EXCLUDED_TABLES[@]}"
    do :
    IGNORED_TABLES_STRING+=" --ignore-table=${DATABASE}.${TABLE}"
    done

    echo "Dump structure"
    mysqldump --host=${HOST} --user=${USER} --password=${PASSWORD} --single-transaction --no-data ${DATABASE} > ${DB_FILE}

    echo "Dump content"
    mysqldump --host=${HOST} --user=${USER} --password=${PASSWORD} ${DATABASE} ${IGNORED_TABLES_STRING} >> ${DB_FILE}

### mysql docker start cmd

    docker run --name my-container-name -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=my-secret-pw -d mysql/mysql-server:tag


### drop table with foreighkey

    SET FOREIGN_KEY_CHECKS=0; DROP TABLE bericht; SET FOREIGN_KEY_CHECKS=1;

### drop multiple table 

    DROP TABLE IF EXISTS B,C,A;


### mysql convert timezone

    SELECT CONVERT_TZ('2017-11-05 23','-07:00','America/Los_Angeles');
